Praised Jesus and Mary, nice greetings to everyone watching our you tube channel.
And in the the beginning I want to ask all of you to subscribe to our you tube channel if you have not already.
I forgot to say that up until now, but I have remembered to do it now.
With me today here is special guest, one young man.
As they say a lot of people that get rich and famous.
Usually separate them selfs from God.
However my guest today, has achieved fame, success and money.
But exactly that has encouraged him to grow closer to God.
At the beginning of the video, I greet our Luku Perkovića.
Famous video game player.
So here Luka, in the beginning of our video.
Maybe is the best that you introduce yourself.
We know that you are 21 year old young man from Zagreb.
And everyone knows that you are famous video games player.
I have 22 years now.
22 then now.
Yes I'm pretty sure about that, even tho I would like to have 21.
But I'm soon celebrating 23, years are flying by.
I am Luka Perković,
I was born in Zagreb and grew up in Rakov Potok.
A little village near Samobor.
I was living there for almost 17 years, 16 to be exact.
Then I moved to Berlin to follow my new path in life.
There I have started my professional career playing League of Legends.
So Luka, please tell us, how they say in media,
That you make millions without breaking the sweat.
I still think that's not easy because playing video games and winning tournaments.
Must be very demanding and stressful.
And in the start I would like to hear exactly that.
How hard is playing video games and tournaments like that?
What is that you have to do to get some victory and profit?
What does your average day of preparation for such tournaments look like?
It is a process that started many years ago.
I think 10 years to be exact.
I started playing amateur in 2014/2015 when I was in high school.
I discovered that I had a talent for it.
I was very high in the player rankings.
Then I started joining amateur teams.
And with one amateur team I qualified for the professional league.
It was all completely new.
Something new both for me and for us Croats.
In the beginning, I practiced 12 hours a day.
Literally all day.
It went on for years.
Since we are a successful team every year.
Our season lasts from January to October.
Sometimes November.
It depends on how successful we are in the last tournament.
All of that is very exhausting.
But the hardest part is working with  your teammates.
Interpersonal relationships
Yes, that might be a good thing to say to those who will watch the video.
And are not into video games.
What I have read is
You play in a team of 5 people and attack?
Yes, we have our "tower" and the goal is to destroy the opponent's "tower".
Let's say the game is a mixture of modern chess
And the rest is mechanics, typing and reaction speed.
Also lots of calculations.
You generally need to be fast with your fingers.
You have played in Europe and now you play in America, right?
Yes, I played in Europe.
I competed there for 5 years.
How much did your transfer cost?
I don't know exactly how much it cost.
I want to hear it first hand, if media is right.
A couple million dollars.
My first salary was a hundred dollars a month.
So this industry has grown a lot over the years.
Of course, that's why there are more and more people who are interested in it.
There are a lot of them in Europe, but it is also very popular in China and Korea.
For example, I am more famous in China and Korea than here in Croatia.
Which is really incredible.
What I also read is that you are the eighteenth highest paid player in World and the third in Europe.
Is that true?
I do not know that.
When someone tells me something they read on the Internet, I simply don't know if it's actually true.
What is written on the internet is not always true, so you really wouldn't know.
What interests me is, we started talking about what your working day looks like.
Many young people today play games, many as a hobby, but many also become addicted.
How dangerous is it to play video games anyway?
How much do you, as a person whose job it is, see that it affects you negatively?
That is, to all young people who become addicted to it, who play for hours and hours?
So, first of all, we currently have the best infrastructure.
We get up at 9 in the morning
And at 9.30 we have physical exercises before our training.
It lasts for an hour, after which we have a break.
During the vacation, we take a shower, have lunch, and relax.
After that we have a meeting.
We talk about what is our problem is, what do we need to change.
Every two weeks, new "bakes" arrive in the game.
The game changes every two weeks.
Sometimes little by little, but sometimes a lot.
So it is constant learning and discovering something new.
It's the hardest part of the game, nothing is ever the same, it changes all the time.
And that's why teams go up and down.
They can't keep up with it.
After the meeting, we play together as a team for 5 hours.
We also have video analysis of the game.
Where we talk for twenty, thirty minutes about what to change.
We have debreef at the end of the day.
And then sometimes, since we struggled this summer.
We had one extra block at night, two-three more hours.
So our day used to start at 9 in the morning and end at 9 in the evening.
Those days are really tiring.
This year we had official matches 3 days a week.
Which are broadcast for the audience.
Those days are a little easier but more stressful in a different way.
Adrenaline hits you, you're tired after a match because you always want to do your best.
The structure is a little different on those days.
But there is still a lot of things to do.
We have one day a week off and that day we don't do anything.
We need to rest and mentally prepare for the next week.
Sounds like a very tight schedule, I'm curious what you do on that day off.
It depends on how tired I am.
Sometimes we have some activities.
And sometimes I stay at home, do nothing all day, take a day to rest.
I feel lazy then, but that day comes in handy to recharge my energy for the next day.
Sometimes we go hiking.
Once we even went to the beach.
Just trying to do something different.
Once, when we were really struggling, I stayed to play for 10 hours on that off day.
So that I can practice something new
And bring it into the next week of preparation.
It all depends on how I feel and what we need.
When you started doing well with the games, when you're on that upward trajectory.
Were you tempted to get arrogant?
Ugh, yes, of course.
Of course it was there from the beginning, when I started winning.
As soon as I entered the professional league.
I immediately won the title.
It used to be called "lcs".
And of course that immediately  struck me.
That summer we won another title.
But then we played badly in the world championship and we failed completely.
Basically, people hated me a lot on the internet back then.
Thousands of people sent me death threats.
They didn't like me one bit.
Spring after that, we are great again.
We also played well on international tournament.
Fans started to like me again.
It's like an amusement park, your ego and emotions are constantly going up and down.
Basically after that part, my career was going in positive direction.
In the 2019 season, we had the best season of all teams ever.
We lost only one full match all season.
And that was in the world championship  final.
That year, my ego was extremely  big.
I had changed my playing position then.
From one position to another.
In that second position, I was world class in just a few months of practice.
Which of course raised my ego to a new level.
So I struggled with that a lot.
But at the same time, to associate it with the spiritual part now.
I was raised in the faith, but it was never deep in it.
Let's say it, I was just a traditional believer.
But I didn't know about anything else.
We can maybe talk about it later.
We can do it now since you have started the topic.
So how did your deeper relationship with religion begin?
And in all that, in the world you are in, how do you even find time for God?
Today, the whole world is busy and many young people say that there is no time for God.
And that is the devil's greatest victory.
Convince today's man, occupy him so much that he has no time for God.
How do you manage that?
How did your journey to a deeper relationship with God begin?
Just like you said, there is so many distractions,  cell phones,  ipods, televisions, computers and screens.
I personally find that I rarely actually have a break from it all during the day.
50 years ago there was no information about anything at all.
Now there is information all around us.
So much information that in the end you no longer know what is true and what is a lie.
What is real and what isn't.
Then it preoccupies you, creates problems.
At the end, when you want to relax, do something else.
You can't because your brain is boiling, it can't process so much information.
It simply can not handle all of the information that you read everyday .
Along with my job.....
In the first three years, actually four, of my professional life.
Every year I wanted something more.
Some new challenges.
I wanted to achieve something more.
I wanted to be better.
I wanted to be more famous, earn more money, etc.
Typical human desires for something higher and better all the time.
So I just kept going.
I need to add that in that time.
I really started to separate myself from God
Although I still went to mass.
Actually my separation from God started even earlier than that.
It started in high school, when I entered that adolescent phase.
I started to form my own opinions about the world and life.
I had my phases that I don't know how to describe.
I believed that God exists.
Someone had to make the world.
The world could not have been created by the snapping of fingers or the big bang theory.
God had to make the world and man.
And after that.
What God had to, was able to and wanted to do I didn't know.
I also had my theories that evil and satan does not exist.
But we all decide for ourselves what we want.
Whether we will be a good people or not.
I've become something of an atheist, let's say.
Although I don't know if atheists believe that god exists or not.
I think not, but let's not talk now about what I know and don't know.
But I had my own idea about life and everything.
All of it kinda started to hit me in the head.
At that time I also started taking drugs.
And in those moments when I would smoke, thoughts would come to my head.
"What are you doing? Are you stupid?"
After a while I stopped and now I haven't smoked weed in years.
Do you know what is youth's favorite sentence in the Holy Scriptures?
What is?
When Jesus was with his disciples on the mountain.
And then he told them, as the evangelist describes.
".. and there was a lot of grass.."
This is just a joke.
Under no circumstances does Stjepan recommend that you consume drugs.
Mostly, I will skip some parts now.
But there was one moment before the world final when I couldn't sleep.
That was in a period where we had a lot of success.
My atheism was at an all-time high then.
But that evening before the world final
I played a song on my cell phone.
"Fear not for I am with you."
It gave me, my heart, peace.
I fell asleep and was ready for tomorrow.
We lost zero-three but well, at least I slept.
This is not a story where we won in the end, but that's okay.
During those years, I filled myself with false beliefs
Some kind of false ideology.
And I really did thought.
I thought that I
That you create your own good, your own evil, it all depends on how hard you try.
The more you give, the more you will have.
Of course there were some good things looking at it that way, but there were far more negative ones.
That rotted my brain.
At the end of that year, I was exhausted both mentally and physically.
I carried a lot of childhood trauma with me.
Which I have burr inside me.
When I returned home to my family house, I could not sleep.
It was very difficult for me.
So I Went to sleep at my brothers place.
That night I was not well, I was vomiting and my brother prayed over me.
And in those days, I have had enough of everything.
Literally everything.
That was a psychological and spiritual bottom for me.
One evening, very tempting thoughts came to me.
And then, that evening, I gave up everything.
All the weed and drugs that I used.
I mean, I've never been and I don't want to sound like an addict.
I was curious and tried it all out of curiosity.
But when curiosity takes you somewhere...
That's where everyone starts!
I regretted everything I took and everything I have tried.
I said I would never do it again and I have not used drugs since then.
After all of that, just to clarify that this wasn't an over-night decision.
After that I started my conversion.
I went to confession, to mass.
I started learning about religion, my brother helped me with that.
He taught me what mass is and why I go to mass and its parts.
I started reading spiritual books and studying the Bible.
Slowly got back into faith.
I also went to hagiotheraphy therapy.
Went there couple of times.
It helped me a lot, I learned a lot of useful information.
And that's how my faith actually began.
Because even though I was in the faith before, raised in the faith and ministered in the church.
I didn't really know anything about religion.
I couldn't wait for the priest until the  end of the mass to give me 10 kunas for ice cream, when I was a child.
Oh, yes, in addition to all that,  when I was struggling  mentally.
My dad got cancer.
He has beat it once before; but it came back.
That was before my breakdown.
But it has all added up.
Even the first time when he got cancer, I cried because of the thought that one day he will be gone.
I had some unsolved problems.
All this accumulated and I decided to come back home.
God restored me little by little, more and more.
So, my dad got cancer again
And that got to his had a little bit.
It affected me a lot.
After a few months, in the spring of 2020.
We won everything again for spring.
Due to corona, the tournament, which is normally in May, was cancelled.
I returned back home.
Dad was very sick from the cancer at that time.
He was on a lot of drugs.
He become slightly different person.
When a disease takes a person, it really changes them.
That was very hard for me and I struggled with faith again.
I would literally go to forest to cry.
To Scream!
Why this? Why that?
At least God gave me good conversation with my father a few months before all of this.
You had your chance.
Yes, we had the opportunity to solve a lot of things.
Let's just say that at that time I was at peace in my heart about my problems.
But I still couldn't come to terms with the fact that he might not be there.
And that might happen soon.
That was just one more
how it's called,
one more step, on my way to faith!
So it actually strengthened my faith even more.
And last year.
Was it actually last year?
Yes, last year, about 10 months ago.
I went to silence for 3 days.
After silence, I would go back home to eat dinner and sleep.
The next day I would go back.
After that I enrolled in spiritual silence online.
So I followed my considerations every day for 3 months.
There many new things opened up for me.
So I would say that I am just at the beginning of my spiritual journey.
I still have a lot of things to learn.
But I'm already much better.
I see changes in myself, in my behavior.
Sometimes it feels like I'm out of my body.
It's like I'm in a third perspective.
I see myself, how I would react two years ago and how I react now.
Although I still get angry, react, argue and what not.
But you reconcile.
Yes, I make peace.
I feel a little less that I need to be in control.
That I need to know everything.
Now you leave it to God.
That's right, I trust him.
I realize that faith is the most important part of my life.
I believe that everything will be fine.
I believe that whatever problems I have, will be solved.
Also I have felt that my problems have not disappeared in those 12 months.
From the loss of the world final, that hit me really hard.
To the situation at home
First dad's illness, then dad's death.
In the end, I broke up with my club, which I had been with for 6 years.
I was with them from the beginning.
We raised the club from an amateur to a professional league.
From nobody we became the most famous in the world.
That breakup hit me really hard.
Although, looking back on it now.
And listening to stories from people who are now in that club.
Everything makes sense to me now.
I'm glad everything turned out the way it did.
Although of course it was very difficult for me at that moment.
It was all very stressful , I haven't slept in days.
It was very tiring for me.
But with the support of family and friends, everything is easier.
God helped me to come to terms with the situation.
So now I'm here.
God sent me here.
When we met on Instagram, I first looked at who this guy was.
He plays video games.
So I said, my God, are there believers even in that world.
What did you think when you saw me?
I was shocked when I sow priest on Instagram.
Where has this world gone?
Luka, thank you from the bottom of my heart for this testimony of faith and everything else.
Finally, for conclusion, what would you really recommend to young people who are into the game world?
Who are all young like you.
Do you have a message for them?
What would you say to all of them?
That maybe they don't repeat those things that you yourself went through.
Thank God your story is positive.
You found God, you didn't allow yourself to be carried away by pride, fame nor money.
And least at first, you seem like a normal person.
Thank you!
I have a few thoughts for parents and their children.
First, for parents, if someone plays games, it does not immediately mean that they are addicted.
That it is very bad for them and that they will not achieve anything in life.
I learned a lot about life from video games.
How to treat things in life better.
You can find something positive everything, it depends on how you look at it.
Of course, children should be controlled.
So that it does not turn into an addiction.
Or that it becomes the only thing in their lifes that makes sense.
Second thing would be "Drugs are not the answer, nor the solution"
And if you are in friend group,
in which they force you to do something.
It's best that you leave those friend and go to church on Sveti Duh.
They have community gatherings on Thursday.
That will surely be better for you!
Likewise, of course,
It is better to set a time and whatever you do it good.
Maybe you will need to study 12 hours a day for the exams.
But spending quality time is better than spending too much time on something.
There were many times when I spent 12 hours a day playing games.
I would have been much better if I had rested a bit.
Analyze a little, rest, take a walk.
Live healthier and move a lot more.
Because that way you will learn more and improve yourself.
Whatever you do, do it well and do not waste time.
And yes.
Everyone is destined for something in life!
Don't think that everyone is for playing video gamers, for sports, for this or that.
Or for being friars.
Yes, of course, hardly anyone.
But there are people for that too!
For example, my knee is really messed up.
I can't kneel or jump, it all hurts a lot.
I tried to play sports when I was little.
But God was sending me in a different way.
So sports are not for everyone, nor are video games.
Or anything else, don't push yourself too hard.
And finally, tell us what your plans are for the future.
Can we expect you in Croatia, are you coming back?
Where will you be in the next period of your life?
I learned not to plan too much for my future.
Often when I plan something, it doesn't happen according to my plans.
I always have some ideas, I think of something new.
But I will live in Croatia when I finish my career.
That's something I've already decided.
I'm not staying in Los Angeles or anywhere else.
I love being at home and I love my country.
I plan to live here.
When, how and what I don't know yet.
Because I don't know for how long I will compete.
But I will stay in the industry after my retirement.
One last sentence for the end, you have probably heard in the church already but you also know what I do.
What do you think about The new evangelization?
How can we evangalize today?
That something I have started learning about when  I was angry, stressed end frustrated.
There was so many moments in my life where I wanted to change something on someone.
I didn't like this or that about them.
Then I realized that there were a lot of things I did not like about me.
Now I first look at me and then I look for love.
First love for yourself, love that God gives you from your birth.
And then love for others.
Which is actually the most important part of your life, your purpose .
To spread love.
Love for the God, animals, world, plants, etc.
For family and friends of course.
Love for everything that the God has given us.
You can evangelize by spreading love.
Thank you once again!
Thank you to all of you that watch, comment and share this video.
God bless all of you!